In this course, we've talked
primarily about structuring data
in a tabular form using
the DataFrame as our construct.
This builds off
of spreadsheets,
which have been used
for the last 30 years.
It's an excellent way to
show relationships
between instances,
which are sometimes called
the observations, entities,
or in the case of Pandas, rows,
and the attributes that
these instances have,
which are often called features,
or in Pandas, columns.
But it's important
to recognize that
there's nothing
innate to the data,
which is structured this way.
This tabular
representation of data
is an abstraction that
we as data scientists,
have applied to allow
us to more easily
build manipulation routines
with certain properties.
It's an abstraction
that allows us
to quickly do operations,
such as summarizing
data fields or
applying a machine-learning
algorithm.
But there are
many different forms of
abstractions that you
should be aware of,
and I want to touch on
a few of those here.
I think one of
the most common forms of
abstractions that we use
is a network diagram.
You could think of
a network being made up
of individuals, which
have attributes,
and that those individuals are
connected to other individuals,
and the connection itself
also has attributes.
So let's take Twitter
data as an example.
Individual users have attributes,
such as their Twitter user ID,
their picture, and their name.
They can be connected
to other individuals.
For instance, I might be
connected to Paul Resnik,
because I follow him on Twitter,
and he might be connected back to
me because he blocks
me on Twitter.
So we see that
these connections could
even have a direction.
That the attribute
on the connections,
such as whether Paul
blocks someone,
is important to distinguish
when connecting the individuals,
because we want to represent that
the inferences that
Paul is blocking me,
and not the other way around.
I adore Paul. More
generally, though,
we could think of networks
as being made up of nodes,
and that these could
represent anything,
people, sports teams, planets.
It all depends on
what your data is.
The nodes are connected
through edges,
which may be directed
or undirected.
Sometimes a network is
referred to as a graph,
and sometimes nodes are
referred to as vertices.
But conceptually these
are all the same things.
What's really important
for you to know is that we
can convert between
representations.
Being a solid data scientist
means that you're able to take
one representation
and change it to
another to apply techniques
that you may already know.
This is especially
important when talking to
different kinds of clients
and collaborators,
who might have different
disciplinary backgrounds.
For networks, a common
second representation
is an adjacency matrix,
and you'll learn more
about that in this degree.
In this case, we might
have two matrices,
one for following and
one for blocking.
The rows and columns list
all the potential people that we
might have linkages between.
In the following matrix
we might have a value
of "true" between my row
and Paul's column,
indicating that I follow Paul.
While in the blocking matrix,
you might have a value
of "true" between
Paul's row and my column.
We could just represent
these matrices in
NumPy as we did in
the first week of this course.
We can then use libraries,
such as NetworkX in Python
to visualize these networks.
We we can apply
certain algorithms to
answer interesting
questions, such as,
is there an indirect
connection between
myself and one of the deans
I maybe don't follow,
like Beth Yake.
This is heavily used in
social science research to
understand influence
and social connections.
I actually use this in
my own educational
technology research to
understand how
learners study habits
might impact those whom
they're friends with.
But I'm not going to
deep dive into networks here,
I just want to foreshadow that
this is a kind of abstraction
that will be in your toolkit
as a data scientist,
and that moving between
these abstractions is important.
There's actually
some specific subtypes
of networks that you'll
run into as well.
Perhaps the most common of
these is the tree structure.
In a general form,
a tree can be thought
of as a network with a hierarchy,
where there's a node at the top;
we could call this the root,
and subsequent nodes appear
in underneath in levels,
and they're connected
to the nodes above.
Sometimes the connections
are singular,
where a given node can only
connect to one node above it,
and sometimes the
connections are multiple,
such as in a family tree,
where a node can
connect to two parents,
often used to represent
genetic lineage.
Actually, despite calling
this structure a tree,
we really don't model it
much after living trees.
Usually those have roots at
the bottom, not at the top.
But we do use nomenclature
from family trees,
and we refer to nodes
as having siblings,
parents, and children
of their own.
All of this language is
used only to describe
the relationship a node has
with other nodes in the tree,
as far as the levels
of the node go,
and not to infer anything else,
such as attributes a node has.
We do call the nodes at
the bottom of
a tree leaf nodes though.
So it's sort of odd reference
back to the forestry
notion of a tree.
Trees, like graphs and matrices,
just give us a language
for describing
relationships which we can then
apply to different domains.
An example of trees
which you'll learn about
is from natural language
processing, or NLP.
In NLP, it's common to represent
a chunk of text as a parse tree,
which helps to
contextualize ambiguity.
Here's an example from
the docs of one of
the most popular Python
libraries for text processing,
the Natural Language
Toolkit, or NLTK.
In it, they've taken
a sentence "The little
bears saw a fine fat trout
in the brook" and built
parse tree based on
the English language grammar.
You could see that
the leaf nodes are
the words themselves,
which each have one parent node,
which is a part of speech tag.
For instance, little is
an adjective and bear is a noun,
and these nodes each
have a common parent.
In this case, it's been
classified as a nominal,
which has a parent
of a noun phrase.
The data scientist can then use
this parse tree to find out
relationships between words,
such as which adjectives
refer to specific nouns,
and important task
in the analytics
of product reviews, for instance.
These are just a few
of the data structures
you'll be exploring
in this degree.
If there's one conceptual piece
I hope you take away
from this lecture,
is that these structures
are representations that
we impose on the underlying data.
The meaning of the data that we
derived from these
representations can
change based on how we decide
to apply a representation.
A data scientist needs
to be able to interact
with a broad array of
other stakeholders and,
as such, needs to be
able to be flexible with
how they conceive of
and represent data.